Process to create a full stack structure inside an html template:


1) First it will be necessary to create the file package.json inside the main folder of the html / bootstrap template
In order to do this, open the console and type:

npm init -y

In this way the file package.json will be created in the folder

2) Now we need to install al the necessary components to be sure that our Node.js structure is really working.
Below we have the list of all the mandatory modules that are necessary to install to ensure the basic functions:


1- npm init (this command initialize the new Node.js app)

2 - We have now install Express first, the framework that allow 
our Node.js App to work.

In order to do this, we have to type the following command in the terminal:

npm install express --save

Thanks to this command, we will install Express in the App directory 
and save it in the dependencies list. 

For more information follow the link Below:

https://expressjs.com/en/starter/installing.html


3 - Now we have to install first node itself, the language that allows our
app to work.

In order to do this, type the following command in the console:

npm i node

node": "^17.4.0" it will be installed.

4 -Now we must install nodemon, an additional app that allow to our app to run in 
real time, while we still working.

In order to do this, type the following code in the terminal:

npm install -g nodemon

Nodemon is a utility depended on by over 1.5 million projects, that will monitor for any changes 
in your source and automatically restart your server. Perfect for development.

Swap nodemon instead of node to run your code, and now your process will automatically restart 
when your code changes. 

Features

    Automatic restarting of application.
    Detects default file extension to monitor.
    Default support for node but easy to run any executable, such as python, ruby, make, etc.
    Ignoring specific files or directories.
    Watch specific directories.
    Works with server applications or one time run utilities and REPLs.
    Scriptable through node require statements.
    Open source and available on github.


After we run the code, "nodemon": "^2.0.15" will be installed

5- Now we have to install EJS, that is a mixed language (like JSX in React for example) that lets the user
generate HTML markup with plain JavaScript.

Official page here:

https://ejs.co/

to install run the following command:

npm install ejs

version ejs": "^3.1.6" will be installed.

6 - Next step, we need to install morgan.

morgan is middleware created specifically for node.js

A middleware is  basically a function that will the receive the Request and Response objects,
just like your route Handlers do. As a third argument you have another function which you
should call once your middleware code completed.

For more detailed information about how a middleware works please read this article:

https://selvaganesh93.medium.com/how-node-js-middleware-works-d8e02a936113

the core concepts are:

The middleware, that must be put on the top our index.js file, right after the import sequence 
and he is a sort of "guardian" that allow only the authorized users to access to the backend /
front end data; the middleware is for example the function that handle a log in request.

More in to details :

Middleware functions are functions that have access to the request object (req), 
the response object (res), and the next function in the application’s request-response cycle. 
The next function is a function in the Express router which, when invoked, 
executes the middleware succeeding the current middleware.

Middleware functions can perform the following tasks:

    Execute any code.
    Make changes to the request and the response objects.
    End the request-response cycle.
    Call the next middleware in the stack.

If the current middleware function does not end the request-response cycle, it must call 
next() to pass control to the next middleware function. 
Otherwise, the request will be left hanging.

Starting with Express 5, middleware functions that return a Promise will call next(value) 
when they reject or throw an error. next will be called with either the rejected value 
or the thrown Error.

A middleware is a "guard dog" that will execute a code upon request, when certain conditions 
(access credential match) are satisfied 

Among the many that are available, morgan is one middleware app. 

The name is a joke, connected to the character of Dexter, surname, Morgan.

because morgan handle first the request / response object,(req, res) to dig deeper in this
topic please read here:

https://www.pabbly.com/tutorials/express-js-request-response/

Morgan: Morgan is an HTTP request level Middleware. It is a great tool that logs the 
requests along with some other information depending upon its configuration and the preset used. 
It proves to be very helpful while debugging and also if you want to create Log files.

Here the command:

npm i express morgan

morgan "morgan": "^1.10.0", will be installed

7 - Install DotEnv, a api for node.js that store sensitive values (like the passwords and also 
virtual ports numbers), remembering to do not upload it in git hub because this file can contain 
sensitive information like passwords.

To proceed, type the following command in the terminal:

npm i dotenv

in package.json will appear -> dotenv": "^16.0.0"

then we must create system file called .env (DotEnv) that require a special sintax, no 
capital letter ad no braces, no quotation marks, example follow:

DB_HOST=localhost
DB_USER=admin
DB_PASSWORD=password

8 - Install jQuery, a special JavaScript library:

npm i jquery

this command will install jQuery

"jquery": "^3.6.0"

!Warning -> do not type npm i jQuery because an old and deprecated version will be installed
no capital letter!



jQuery Syntax

The jQuery syntax is tailor-made for selecting HTML elements and performing some action on 
the element(s).

Basic syntax is: $(selector).action()

    A $ sign to define/access jQuery
    A (selector) to "query (or find)" HTML elements
    A jQuery action() to be performed on the element(s)

Examples:

$(this).hide() - hides the current element.

$("p").hide() - hides all <p> elements.

$(".test").hide() - hides all elements with class="test".

$("#test").hide() - hides the element with id="test".

9 - install pug (former name Jade) a view engine, a api that render the components in
to the browser:

 npm install pug

 version -> "pug": "^3.0.2"

10 - Install parcel a parallel framework (close to express):

npm install --save-dev parcel

 "parcel": "^2.2.1"

 11 - Install yargs (Yargs helps you build interactive command line tools by parsing arguments 
 and generating an elegant user interface.)

npm i yargs@next

"yargs": "^17.1.1-candidate.0"


12 - Bcrypt an hash generator for handle the passwords:

npm i bcrypt

"bcrypt": "^5.0.1",


------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Set up is now complete, next step check how  to convert the entire web site to the back end side



